{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Italic;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red59\green35\blue34;\red206\green202\blue156;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh13280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Java implementation of the Parameterless Population Pyramid. Command line version.\
\
The 
\f1\b 2016ParameterlessPopulationPyramidJava 
\f0\b0 (JavaP3) implements the Parameterless Population Pyramid (P3) first created by Brian W. Goldman[1, 2]. \
This code is a close translation to Java from the C++ implementation, 
\f1\b FastEfficientP3
\f0\b0 , made available by Goldman at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/brianwgoldman/FastEfficientP3"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/brianwgoldman/FastEfficientP3}}.\

\f2\fs26 \
\pard\tx529\pardeftab529\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 To compile you will need a fairly up to date Java compiler. We used Java SE 1.7 for our compilation.\
All the source code is available at the \'91src\'92 directory.\
\
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
To compile do:\
\
    1. Open Terminal (or any other command line shell environment).\
\
    2. Go to directory      
\f3\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 2016ParameterlessPopulationPyramidJava/bin
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\
    3. Compile with command 
\f3\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 javac ../src/com/z_P3/*.java -d ./
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1  \
\
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
To run P3 do:\
\
    1. Open Terminal (or any other command line shell environment).\
\
    2. Go to directory     
\f3\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 2016ParameterlessPopulationPyramidJava/bin
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\
    3. Run P3 with command 
\f3\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 java com/z_P3/P3 ./P3Parameters.txt
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\
The argument 
\f3\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 ./P3Parameters.txt
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1  is the name of the input file that provides a default test configuration for P3.\
To use P3 with different configurations and solve other problems you can change this file or create your own input file (just remember to change the corresponding argument in the java command).\
\
Some of the options provided by Goldman in the 
\f1\b FastEfficientP3 
\f0\b0 are not available in this Java version, namely:\
\
    1. 
\f4\i Pyramid
\f0\i0  is the only \'91optimizer\'92.\
  \
    2. 
\f4\i First Improvement
\f0\i0  is the only \'91hill_climber\'92.\
\
    3. 
\f4\i Smallest First
\f0\i0  is the only \'91cluster_ordering\'92.\
  \
    4. Crossover always uses 1-sized clusters.\
\
    5. Crossover always searches for donors until a change is made.\
\
    6. Crossover never uses clusters with zero distance.\
\
    7. Pyramid only adds solutions to higher levels if they were improved.\
\
\
The Ising Spin Glass problem files are the ones provided by Goldman in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/brianwgoldman/FastEfficientP3"}}{\fldrslt \CocoaLigature1 https://github.com/brianwgoldman/FastEfficientP3}}\CocoaLigature1 .\CocoaLigature0 \
\
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\
Each execution of JavaP3 (one or more runs) generates two output files:\
\
    1. 
\f4\i P3-TEST_nRuns
\f0\i0  \'85 
\f4\i .txt   
\f0\i0\fs28 ==> 
\fs24 Contains detailed information about the solutions evaluated in each iteration of P3. Provides a good sense of how the search evolved in each run of P3.\
\
    2. 
\f4\i P3-STATS_nRuns
\f0\i0  \'85 
\f4\i .txt  
\f0\i0\fs28 ==>
\f4\i\fs24  
\f0\i0 Contains the main statistical information generated in each run of P3. This data can be used to analyze the P3 performance.\
\
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\
\

\f1\b References
\f0\b0 \
\
[1] \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 B. W. Goldman and W. F. Punch.
\f1\b  Parameter-less population pyramid
\f0\b0 . \
    In 
\f4\i Proceedings
\f0\i0  of the 2014 Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation, GECCO \'9214, pages 785\'96792, New York, NY, USA, 2014. ACM.
\f5\fs26  \

\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0  \
\
[2] \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 B. W. Goldman and W. F. Punch. 2015. 
\f1\b Fast and efficient black box optimization using the parameter-less population pyramid
\f0\b0 . \
    
\f4\i Evol. Comput.
\f0\i0  23, 3 (September 2015), 451-479.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\
\
}